The following instructions assume that your DeadEnds is in a Git
repository.  If you received a distribution [none has occurred as
yet], then some of these steps can be skipped, but it won't hurt to
perform them.

In this repository there are two branches.  The main branch which is
identical to the main branch in Tom's Git repository.  And the
dct-experiment branch.  The following assumes that you are on the
dct-experiment branch.

. cd to the top of the workspace and type the following three commands:

  automake
  autoheader
  autoconf

The automake command generates Makefile.in files that will
be used by configure (in a later step) to generate the makefiles.

The autoheader program generates the config.h.in file.  Which will be
used by configure to generate config.h in the build tree.

The autoconf command generates the configure command.

. pick a directory where you wish to do the build.

NOTE: While building inside the source workspace does work, it is
strongly discouraged.

. cd /to/the/top/of/the/build/location and type

  /path/to/the/top/of/the/source/tree/configure

NOTE: giving a relative path is permissible and will work just fine.
For example, if you have decided to have your build tree as a
directory in the directory that contains DeadEnds, then the following
will work (assuming the DeadEnds directory is called DeadEnds,
otherwise modify as appropriate):

  ../DeadEnds/configure

The configure script supports a gazillion options.  To see what they
are, type --help to the configure command.

The configure script generates the Makefile's from the Makefile.in's.
And config.h from config.h.in.

. once configure finishes, type

  make

Once everything has built, it can normally be installed with

  make install

But, DeadEnds does not currently have anything to install.  In the
future it might.

NOTE: You should NOT edit the Makefile.in files.  They are *GENERATED*
by automake from the corresponding Makefile.am files and some other
inputs.  If you edit them, your changes *WILL* be lost the next time
automake is run.

Similarly, the configure script is *GENERATED* from configure.ac and
other inputs by autoconf.  Any changes made *WILL* be lost the next
time that autoconf is run.  If you need changes, you should probably
edit configure.ac and rerun autoconf.

And, config.h.in is also a *GENERATED* file.  If you edit it, your
changes *WILL* be lost.
