.TH de\-llines 1 "2025 May" "DE LifeLines 0.8"
.SH NAME
de\-llines \- DE LifeLines genealogy program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "de\-llines [" OPTION ]... 
.br
.BI "de\-llines [" OPTION ]... Database
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIde\-llines\fR invokes the DE LifeLines genealogy program.
.PP
For up to date documentation please refer to the Documentation 
section of this man page.
.PP
DE LifeLines is a program to manipulate genealogical information in
lineage-linked GEDCOM format. It has a curses interface, and a
built-in interpreter for its own genealogical report language.  It
also has an embedded Python interpreter.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are some of the options available for \fIde\-llines\fR.
.TP
.BI \-C
Specify configuration file location.
.TP
.BI \-I
Specify a user property (e.g. -ILLEDITOR=gvim).
.TP
.BI \-P
Invoke the Python interactive interpreter (if configured in).
.TP
.BI \-a
Log dynamic memory operation (for debugging).
.TP
.BI \-s \fIseconds\fP
Sleep for \fIseconds\fR when processed (for debugging, allowing the user to attach a debugger).
.TP
.BI \-d
Developmental/debug mode (signals are not caught).
.TP
.BI \-k
Always show key values (normally key is not shown if a REFN is shown).
.TP
.BI \-n
Do not use traditional family rules.
.TP
.BI \-o
Specify DE script program output filename (eg, -o /tmp/mytests)
Note that this is only used for the FIRST DE script program that
is run as each output file is truncated when first opened.
.TP
.BI \-p \fIscript.py\fP
Execute a single LifeLines Python script directly (if configured in).
.TP
.BI \-u \fICOLS\fP,\fIROWS\fR
Specify window size (eg, -u120,34 specifies 120 columns by 34 rows).
.TP
.BI \-x
Execute a single DE LifeLines report program directly.
.TP
.BI \-z
Use normal ASCII characters for drawing lines in user
interface rather than the vt100 special characters.
.TP
.BI \-?
Display options summary, (on UNIX, MacOS, or Linux use the \-h option).
.PP
\fIde\-llexec\fR is a version of \fIde\-llines\fR without the user interface for
non-interactive processing of report programs. (Typically used with the -x
option.).
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
The DE LifeLines programs looks for configuration files in a variety of
locations.  If a configuratiion file is specified on the command line,
it is read.  Otherwise, if the environment variables
.B DECONFIGFILE
exists, the file pointed to is read.  Otherwise, the following three
configuration files are searched for and read, in turn, if found:
.br
.I /etc/de-lifelines.conf
.br
.I ~/.deadendsrc
(on Windows,
.I ~/deadends.cfg
is read instead).
.br
.I ./.deadendsrc
(on Windows,
.I ./deadends.cfg
is read instead)

Finally, if the database defines the option
.B DECONFIGFILE
then that file is read.

.SH FILES
.I /etc/de-lifelines.conf
.br
.I ~/.deadendsrc
.br
.I ~/deadends.cfg
.br
.I ./.deadendsrc
.br
.I ./deadends.cfg
.RS
Possible locations for DE LifeLines configuration file DE LifeLines
looks for a configuration file for various settings. See section
\fISystem And User Properties\fR in the userguide for details.
.RE
.SH DOCUMENTATION
The DE LifeLines documentation should be installed as part of the installation,
and may also be viewed at the project site: https://lifelines.github.io/lifelines/
Look for ll-userguide and ll-reportmanual (with appropriate extensions for
text, html and pdf formats).
The normal installation process includes a large number of sample report
programs that you can customize to suit your needs.  In the directory
containing these reports you should find a file named index.html which gives a
very brief summary of each report.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR de\-llexec (1),
