.TH de\-llexec 1 "2025 May" "DE LifeLines 0.8"
.SH NAME
de\-llexec \- DE LifeLines Report Processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B de\-llexec
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIDatabase\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
de\-llexec is a slimmed down version of the \fIde\-llines\fR 
DE lifeLines genealogy program, used for executing reports
from scripts.
.PP
de\-llexec has simplified and stubbed out input/output in
place of de\-llines curses interface, and expects to be invoked
with a report on the commandline (via the \fI-x\fR option).
.PP
de\-llexec uses almost all the same options as \fIde\-llines\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are some of the options available for \fIde\-llexec\fR.
.TP
.BI \-C
Specify configuration file location.
.TP
.BI \-I
Specify a user property (e.g. -ILLEDITOR=gvim)
.TP
.BI \-P
Invoke the Python interactive interpreter (if configured in)
.TP
.BI \-a
Log dynamic memory operation (for debugging)
.TP
.BI \-s \fIseconds\fP
Sleep for \fIseconds\fR when processed (for debugging, allowing the user to attach a debugger)
.TP
.BI \-d
Developmental/debug mode (signals are not caught)
.TP
.BI \-k
Always show key values (normally key is not shown if a REFN is shown)
.TP
.BI \-n
Do not use traditional family rules
.TP
.BI \-o
Specify program output filename (eg, -o/tmp/mytests)
.TP
.BI \-p \fIscript.py\fP
Execute a single LifeLines Python script directly (if configured in)
.TP
.BI \-u \fICOLS\fP,\fIROWS\fR
Specify window size (eg, -u120,34 specifies 120 columns by 34 rows)
.TP
.BI \-x
Execute a single DE LifeLines report program directly
.TP
.BI \-z
Use normal ASCII characters for drawing lines in user
interface rather than the vt100 special characters
.TP
.BI \-?
Display options summary, (on UNIX or Linux use the \-h option)
.SH FILES
de\-llexec looks for a configuration file for various settings, in
exactly the same manner as \fIde\-llines\fR. See the DE LifeLines userguide
for details.
.SH DOCUMENTATION
The DE LifeLines documentation should be installed as part of the installation,
and may also be viewed at the project site: https://lifelines.github.io/lifelines/
Look for ll-userguide and ll-reportmanual (with appropriate extensions for
text, html and pdf formats).
The normal installation process includes a large number of sample report
programs that you can customize to suit your needs.  In the directory
containing these reports you should find a file named index.html which gives a
very brief summary of each report.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR de\-llexec (1).
